README.md, before:

<img src="./memory.png"></img>

## Compressive Transformer in Pytorch

Pytorch implementation of <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=SylKikSYDH">Compressive Transformers</a>, a variant of Transformer-XL with compressed memory for long-range language modelling. I will also combine this with an idea from <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.06764">another paper</a> that adds gating at the residual intersection. The memory and the gating may be synergistic, and lead to further improvements in both language modeling as well as reinforcement learning.

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/compressive-transformer-pytorch.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/compressive-transformer-pytorch)

## Install

```bash
$ pip install compressive_transformer_pytorch
```

## Usage

```python
import torch
from compressive_transformer_pytorch import CompressiveTransformer

model = CompressiveTransformer(
    num_tokens = 20000,
    emb_dim = 128,                 # embedding dimensions, embedding factorization from Albert paper
    dim = 512,
    depth = 12,
    seq_len = 1024,
    mem_len = 1024,                # memory length
    cmem_len = 1024 // 4,          # compressed memory buffer length
    cmem_ratio = 4,                # compressed memory ratio, 4 was recommended in paper
    reconstruction_loss_weight = 1,# weight to place on compressed memory reconstruction loss
    attn_dropout = 0.1,            # dropout post-attention
    ff_dropout = 0.1,              # dropout in feedforward
    attn_layer_dropout = 0.1,      # dropout for attention layer output
    gru_gated_residual = True,     # whether to gate the residual intersection, from 'Stabilizing Transformer for RL' paper
    mogrify_gru = False,           # experimental feature that adds a mogrifier for the update and residual before gating by the GRU
    memory_layers = range(6, 13),  # specify which layers to use long-range memory, from 'Do Transformers Need LR Memory' paper
    one_head_kv = True,            # share one key/value head for all queries, from Shazeers 'One Write-Head is All You Need'
    ff_glu = True                  # use GLU variant for feedforward
)

inputs = torch.randint(0, 256, (1, 2048))
masks = torch.ones_like(inputs).bool()

segments = inputs.reshape(1, -1, 1024).transpose(0, 1)
masks = masks.reshape(1, -1, 1024).transpose(0, 1)

logits, memories, aux_loss = model(segments[0], mask = masks[0])
logits,        _, aux_loss = model(segments[1], mask = masks[1], memories = memories)

# memories is a named tuple that contains the memory (mem) and the compressed memory (cmem)
```

When training, you can use the `AutoregressiveWrapper` to have memory management across segments taken care of for you. As easy as it gets.

```python
import torch
from compressive_transformer_pytorch import CompressiveTransformer
from compressive_transformer_pytorch import AutoregressiveWrapper

model = CompressiveTransformer(
    num_tokens = 20000,
    dim = 512,
    depth = 6,
    seq_len = 1024,
    mem_len = 1024,
    cmem_len = 256,
    cmem_ratio = 4,
    memory_layers = [5,6]
).cuda()

model = AutoregressiveWrapper(model)

inputs = torch.randint(0, 20000, (1, 2048 + 1)).cuda()

for loss, aux_loss, _ in model(inputs, return_loss = True):
    (loss + aux_loss).backward()
    # optimizer step and zero grad

# ... after much training ...

# generation is also greatly simplified and automated away
# just pass in the prime, which can be 1 start token or any length
# all is taken care of for you

prime = torch.ones(1, 1).cuda()  # assume 1 is start token
sample = model.generate(prime, 4096)
```


## Citations

```bibtex
@misc{rae2019compressive,
    title={Compressive Transformers for Long-Range Sequence Modelling},
    author={Jack W. Rae and Anna Potapenko and Siddhant M. Jayakumar and Timothy P. Lillicrap},
    year={2019},
    eprint={1911.05507},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
    primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{parisotto2019stabilizing,
    title={Stabilizing Transformers for Reinforcement Learning},
    author={Emilio Parisotto and H. Francis Song and Jack W. Rae and Razvan Pascanu and Caglar Gulcehre and Siddhant M. Jayakumar and Max Jaderberg and Raphael Lopez Kaufman and Aidan Clark and Seb Noury and Matthew M. Botvinick and Nicolas Heess and Raia Hadsell},
    year={2019},
    eprint={1910.06764},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
    primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{rae-razavi-2020-transformers,
    title = "Do Transformers Need Deep Long-Range Memory?",
    author = "Rae, Jack  and
      Razavi, Ali",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    month = jul,
    year = "2020",
    address = "Online",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.acl-main.672"
}
```

```bibtex
@article{Shazeer2019FastTD,
    title   = {Fast Transformer Decoding: One Write-Head is All You Need},
    author  = {Noam Shazeer},
    journal = {ArXiv},
    year    = {2019},
    volume  = {abs/1911.02150}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{shazeer2020glu,
    title   = {GLU Variants Improve Transformer},
    author  = {Noam Shazeer},
    year    = {2020},
    url     = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05202}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{lan2019albert,
    title       = {ALBERT: A Lite BERT for Self-supervised Learning of Language Representations},
    author      = {Zhenzhong Lan and Mingda Chen and Sebastian Goodman and Kevin Gimpel and Piyush Sharma and Radu Soricut},
    year        = {2019},
    url         = {https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.11942}
}
```

Commit message:

add enhanced recurrence from Ernie-doc paper, turned on by default

README.md, after:

<img src="./memory.png"></img>

## Compressive Transformer in Pytorch

Pytorch implementation of <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=SylKikSYDH">Compressive Transformers</a>, a variant of Transformer-XL with compressed memory for long-range language modelling. I will also combine this with an idea from <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.06764">another paper</a> that adds gating at the residual intersection. The memory and the gating may be synergistic, and lead to further improvements in both language modeling as well as reinforcement learning.

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/compressive-transformer-pytorch.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/compressive-transformer-pytorch)

## Install

```bash
$ pip install compressive_transformer_pytorch
```

## Usage

```python
import torch
from compressive_transformer_pytorch import CompressiveTransformer

model = CompressiveTransformer(
    num_tokens = 20000,
    emb_dim = 128,                 # embedding dimensions, embedding factorization from Albert paper
    dim = 512,
    depth = 12,
    seq_len = 1024,
    mem_len = 1024,                # memory length
    cmem_len = 1024 // 4,          # compressed memory buffer length
    cmem_ratio = 4,                # compressed memory ratio, 4 was recommended in paper
    reconstruction_loss_weight = 1,# weight to place on compressed memory reconstruction loss
    attn_dropout = 0.1,            # dropout post-attention
    ff_dropout = 0.1,              # dropout in feedforward
    attn_layer_dropout = 0.1,      # dropout for attention layer output
    gru_gated_residual = True,     # whether to gate the residual intersection, from 'Stabilizing Transformer for RL' paper
    mogrify_gru = False,           # experimental feature that adds a mogrifier for the update and residual before gating by the GRU
    memory_layers = range(6, 13),  # specify which layers to use long-range memory, from 'Do Transformers Need LR Memory' paper
    ff_glu = True                  # use GLU variant for feedforward
)

inputs = torch.randint(0, 256, (1, 2048))
masks = torch.ones_like(inputs).bool()

segments = inputs.reshape(1, -1, 1024).transpose(0, 1)
masks = masks.reshape(1, -1, 1024).transpose(0, 1)

logits, memories, aux_loss = model(segments[0], mask = masks[0])
logits,        _, aux_loss = model(segments[1], mask = masks[1], memories = memories)

# memories is a named tuple that contains the memory (mem) and the compressed memory (cmem)
```

When training, you can use the `AutoregressiveWrapper` to have memory management across segments taken care of for you. As easy as it gets.

```python
import torch
from compressive_transformer_pytorch import CompressiveTransformer
from compressive_transformer_pytorch import AutoregressiveWrapper

model = CompressiveTransformer(
    num_tokens = 20000,
    dim = 512,
    depth = 6,
    seq_len = 1024,
    mem_len = 1024,
    cmem_len = 256,
    cmem_ratio = 4,
    memory_layers = [5,6]
).cuda()

model = AutoregressiveWrapper(model)

inputs = torch.randint(0, 20000, (1, 2048 + 1)).cuda()

for loss, aux_loss, _ in model(inputs, return_loss = True):
    (loss + aux_loss).backward()
    # optimizer step and zero grad

# ... after much training ...

# generation is also greatly simplified and automated away
# just pass in the prime, which can be 1 start token or any length
# all is taken care of for you

prime = torch.ones(1, 1).cuda()  # assume 1 is start token
sample = model.generate(prime, 4096)
```


## Citations

```bibtex
@misc{rae2019compressive,
    title   = {Compressive Transformers for Long-Range Sequence Modelling},
    author  = {Jack W. Rae and Anna Potapenko and Siddhant M. Jayakumar and Timothy P. Lillicrap},
    year    = {2019},
    eprint  = {1911.05507},
    archivePrefix = {arXiv},
    primaryClass = {cs.LG}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{parisotto2019stabilizing,
    title   = {Stabilizing Transformers for Reinforcement Learning},
    author  = {Emilio Parisotto and H. Francis Song and Jack W. Rae and Razvan Pascanu and Caglar Gulcehre and Siddhant M. Jayakumar and Max Jaderberg and Raphael Lopez Kaufman and Aidan Clark and Seb Noury and Matthew M. Botvinick and Nicolas Heess and Raia Hadsell},
    year    = {2019},
    eprint  = {1910.06764},
    archivePrefix = {arXiv},
    primaryClass = {cs.LG}
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{rae-razavi-2020-transformers,
    title   = "Do Transformers Need Deep Long-Range Memory?",
    author  = "Rae, Jack  and
      Razavi, Ali",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    month   = jul,
    year    = "2020",
    address = "Online",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url     = "https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.acl-main.672"
}
```

```bibtex
@article{Shazeer2019FastTD,
    title   = {Fast Transformer Decoding: One Write-Head is All You Need},
    author  = {Noam Shazeer},
    journal = {ArXiv},
    year    = {2019},
    volume  = {abs/1911.02150}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{shazeer2020glu,
    title   = {GLU Variants Improve Transformer},
    author  = {Noam Shazeer},
    year    = {2020},
    url     = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05202}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{lan2019albert,
    title       = {ALBERT: A Lite BERT for Self-supervised Learning of Language Representations},
    author      = {Zhenzhong Lan and Mingda Chen and Sebastian Goodman and Kevin Gimpel and Piyush Sharma and Radu Soricut},
    year        = {2019},
    url         = {https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.11942}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{ding2021erniedoc,
    title   = {ERNIE-Doc: A Retrospective Long-Document Modeling Transformer},
    author  = {Siyu Ding and Junyuan Shang and Shuohuan Wang and Yu Sun and Hao Tian and Hua Wu and Haifeng Wang},
    year    = {2021},
    eprint  = {2012.15688},
    archivePrefix = {arXiv},
    primaryClass = {cs.CL}
}
```
